---
layout: post
title: IAAA
subtitle: TryHackMe Writeup - IAAA
description: A step-by-step guide to rooting the UltraTech machine, covering API enumeration, command injection, hash cracking, and Docker privilege escalation.
image: https://tryhackme-images.s3.amazonaws.com/room-icons/e0f6687c43305e3b67a6cb38951d7b56.png
optimized_image: https://tryhackme-images.s3.amazonaws.com/room-icons/e0f6687c43305e3b67a6cb38951d7b56.png
category: tryhackme
tags:
  - TryHackMe
  - Command Injection
  - JohnTheRipper
  - Docker Privilege Escalation
  - Linux
date: 2025-11-05 00:00:00 +0000
paginate: true

---

## Objectives

By the end of this room, you should have gained a solid understanding of the following processes and concepts:

- Identification
- Authentication
- Authorisation
- Accountability
- Access Control Models
- Single Sign-On

---

## The four stages of the IAAA model are: 

**Identification** is the process of verifying who the user is. It starts with the user claiming a specific identity. The identity can be represented by a unique identifier such as an email address, a username, or an ID number. Any identifier unique in the respective environment is a valid option; hence, many websites would rely on an email address for identification instead of asking the user to create a unique username.
Comprehensive port scanning to identify attack surfaces:


**Authorisation** determines what the user is allowed to access. In other words, they will be authorised to carry out specific operations based on their account privileges. This process is typically done by assigning roles and permissions based on the user’s job function or level of clearance. The risk of unauthorised access or data breaches is reduced by restricting access to only the resources necessary for the user to perform their duties.


**Authentication** is the process of ensuring that the user is who they claim to be. In other words, this step is about confirming the claimed identity. One way to authenticate would be by providing the correct password. Because of potential password weaknesses, many other methods, such as asking users to type the code sent to their email, are gaining popularity.


**Accountability** tracks user activity to ensure they are responsible for their actions. After a user is granted access to a system, it is essential to have mechanisms that hold everyone accountable for their actions. This process is achieved by logging all user activity and storing it in a centralised location. In the event of a security incident, this information can be used to identify the source of the problem and take appropriate action.


---

## Initial Exploitation

---